# CVE-2016-4467

## Severity

Medium

## Affected components

Qpid Proton

## Affected versions

0.8 through 0.13.0 inclusive

## Fixed versions

0.13.1 and later

## Description

Failure to verify that the server host name matches the certificate
host name on Windows.

Messaging applications using the Proton C library to provide SSL/TLS
authentication on Windows can falsely authenticate a server whose name
does not match the server name in the connection specifier. Proton C
bindings are affected to a greater or lesser degree depending on how
they use the underlying Proton C library.

In Proton C, this can only happen if PN_SSL_VERIFY_PEER_NAME has been
specified as the verification mode and pn_ssl_set_peer_hostname() has
not been called at all or has been called with a NULL value for a
particular pn_ssl_t object.

In the Proton C++ binding, this will always happen unless the
application has separately specified a virtual_host name for an
SSL/TLS connection.

In the Proton Python and Ruby bindings, this will only happen if the
application has separately specified a NULL virtual_host name for an
SSL/TLS connection after creating the connection but before the
authentication step.

This issue only occurs on Windows versions of Proton that use the
default SChannel-based security layer.

In any of the preceding cases, it is possible for a man-in-the-middle
attacker to spoof an SSL/TLS server if they had a certificate that was
valid for any of the application's Certificate Authorities.

## Resolution

Proton release 0.13.1 resolves this issue in the SChannel-based
security layer by obtaining a default non-NULL peer hostname from the
associated connection address when initialized and by always failing
hostname verification if PN_SSL_VERIFY_PEER_NAME has been specified
along with a NULL peer hostname. This resolution matches the
associated behaviour of the OpenSSL-based security layer.

## References

[PROTON-1228](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/PROTON-1228) and
[PROTON-1233](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/PROTON-1233)
